We'll go ahead and jump
into the word today.
Who's ready to finish up first.
Timothy, anybody, anybody
ready to finish up first?
Timothy Jonas.
Okay, Noah.
Okay, great.
We got Lisa here.
I feel like we got an auction here.
We're gonna.
Bit it down.
Well, I'm excited to be able
to finish up this letter, uh,
that Paul wrote to Timothy.
And, uh, there's a lot of reflection
that I've taken in this week, just
thinking through, uh, what we've learned.
And as I begin to think through, um,
There's been one person that's
guaranteed been in this room every
single week and heard every message.
And that was me.
And I'm still struggling to remember
everything that we took we covered.
But in reflecting, one of the challenges
that we're gonna learn today is that
it's, it's important for us to think back
over what God has taught us in this book.
Um, and I started thinking through this
thought, um, What's some of the last
words that someone says before they
leave your house or get off the phone.
What are some of the last words
that somebody usually says?
And maybe it's somebody
that you're close to.
What are some of the last words that
you say to somebody before you leave
their house or their, their home?
What you got?
I love you.
That's a good one.
What's another one.
See you later.
Okay.
What's some of the actions in which
somebody shows right before they
leave, especially someone they care.
Wave.
Okay.
What's a more intimate a hug, right?
I would say this a lot of times, some
of our last statements and last actions
before we leave home, or we get off
the phone or we say by they're, they're
very what I would say important words,
because you're leaving a person or you're
gonna stop talking to a person in which.
You'll see later, but
you're gonna miss them.
Right?
So you're showing some form of love or,
you know, I I'm gonna see you sooner.
I'll miss you, whatever.
So I started thinking about this
in this letter that Paul is writing
to Timothy we're at the end of it.
And Paul's gonna write, um,
a couple of different things.
Number one, he's he is gonna talk to us
about two different things, but the first
one he's gonna talk about is he's gonna
be kind of summarizing up chapter six
and chapter six is talking about that.
We need to understand the idea behind
godliness with contentment is great.
Um, really dealing with this idea of these
false teachers who were trying to push,
um, making money through being godly.
Right.
Um, and, and trying to try, Paul's
trying to actually teach a really us
and Timothy and the people of Ephesus
to not focus on, uh, the love of money.
And we're gonna continue to talk about
that, but he ends this letter really
with kind of summarizing this idea of,
to reject what the false teachers have
been pushing and to focus on what Paul
has been speaking to him and sharing
with him through, um, the word of God.
And so, uh, it's this challenge, what I
would say this, these words are important
for us to say, Hey, let's listen to this.
As though they're some of the most
important words that Paul would have wrote
to Timothy and that he's writing to us.
And then take that with us to
say those words mean a lot to
reflect on this whole book.
Those words mean a lot to be able
to take with us to leave today and.
And so with that thought, um, I
want us to look at just a little
bit about what we covered last week.
Last week, we talked about fighting
the good fight of faith, and there
was three things that we learned
that we could do to protect our
faith and our witness for Christ.
And it was to flee, to
pursue and to fight.
And if you remember, Paul
was saying to flee from these
false teachings and to pursue.
Godly living to be more like Christ
godliness and to fight for our faith,
knowing that we're in a battle every
day, that we need to continue to
fight for our faith, knowing how
important it is to not give up.
And, and so he said to flee these things
because they would wreck your faith.
And I I've said this, like nobody
goes into the way that they live.
Choosing to wreck their
faith of their life.
I think most of the time it happens
where we begin to drift and all of
a sudden we wreck our faith or all
of a sudden we make these decisions
that we go, how did we get here?
And majority of the time
it didn't happen overnight.
It, it happened over a small, what I
would say is poor decisions over time.
And so Paul's to fight against
making those poor decisions,
fight against following these
teachers and listening to them.
And maybe beginning to, to do some
of the things they think or begin to
pursue some things you shouldn't pursue.
And he says to take.
And flee from those things
and to pursue the things in
which God calls you to pursue.
And so I wanna kind of jump in off of
last week into the text we're in today,
and then we'll cover the next section.
So there's gonna kind of be
a two parts to this, which is
covering the end of chapter six.
And then, then Paul's last statement.
Um, and we'll kind of cover them separate
and then summarize it together at the end.
So we're in first Timothy.
Chapter six, we're gonna be
starting in verse 17 and I'll go
ahead and read through verse 21.
And then we'll just start back at 17.
So it says this, it says instruct
those who are rich in the
present age, not to be arrogant.
Or to set their hope on the uncertainty
of wealth, but on God who richly
provides us with all things to enjoy,
instruct them to do what is good to be
rich in good works to be generous and
willing to share storing up treasures
for themselves as a good foundation
for the coming age, so that they
may take hold of what is truly life.
Timothy guard.
What has been entrusted to you?
Avoiding irreverent and empty speech
and contradictions from what is falsely
called knowledge by professing it, some
people have departed from the faith.
Grace be with you all.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus.
We thank you for today.
And we thank you for your word.
Lord.
I pray that this word sinks down in our
hearts, that each one of us can learn
today from your word to be challenged,
uh, to apply these things to our lives
Lord, and then begin to live them out and,
uh, to begin to share those with others.
And so Lord, uh, we pray
this in your heavily name.
Amen.
I mean, so the first thing that we
see as Paul is instructing the rich
as he instructs them to be humbled.
So to humble themselves.
And so you'll see this in this
first part of the verse has instruct
those who are rich to in the
present age, not to be arrogant.
So the opposite of
arrogant is to be humble.
Um, and so ask this question, how
many in here think you're rich?
See that's the problem in life.
Many of us think we're not rich.
So let ask this question,
put a number on it.
Somebody gimme a number.
What would you call rich?
How much do you gotta
make a year to be rich?
200,300,000 million dollars.
That's what you would call rich.
Right?
Well, what if, what you make and what
you have to the majority of the world
is like a million dollars truth.
Be told most of us in America compared
to the world live and have a million
dollars in other people's perspective.
We are rich.
And the reason why I wanna bring that
up at first is, is we can look at this
text and we can say, Paul's instructing
Timothy to tell the church and to church
of today, those who are rich, do these
things, the moments you hear that,
and you don't define yourself as rich.
You're gonna check out today.
And if you don't check out
today, you're taking notes.
So you can go tell the rich what to do.
so I wanna draw you back in.
I want you to remember this.
You are rich materially, but
I would also say spiritually
because you have Christ, right?
So Paul is speaking directly to us.
So I'm glad that each one of you are back
in and you can now begin to look at this
the way that I had to look at it as well.
And so he talks about that.
We should not be arrogant.
And so the question is, why should
we not be arrogant when we are rich?
Why shouldn't we be arrogant?
Anybody have just.
Great statement.
Why shouldn't we be arrogant?
If we're rich,
somebody tell me what arrogant is.
What is arrogant?
Prideful, boastful, right?
You almost like I earned this.
It's all about me.
Well, Deuteronomy eight 18 tells us this.
It says, but remember that the Lord, your
God gives you the power to gain wealth.
In order to confirm his covenant.
He swore to your ancestors as it is today,
but he says, remember that the Lord, your
God gives you the power to gain wealth.
He's the one that gave you the ability
to have whatever wealth you have, whether
you determine that to be rich or not, you
have it because the Lord gave it to you.
If somebody gives that to you, you are
almost under really their authority
and, and, and, and really up to them,
whether they gave it to you or not.
So for all of us to be arrogant,
well, to be act like you didn't
gain your wealth from the Lord, but
that you gained it from yourself.
And so he's saying don't be arrogant.
You need to recognize
that God gave that to you.
So it's important for us to
remember that we are not owners
of our resources, but stewards.
We're not owners of our
resources, but stewards.
So if you know that you are a steward,
Of the resources in which God gives you.
And so I'll just talk about resources,
time, talents, and treasures.
Let's bring all those into the page.
If every one of those are
given to you by God, and he has
given them to you to steward.
How does that change your
perspective with what you have?
Does that change it for you
when you realize it's not yours?
It's God's I mean, I think it
changes it for me because when it's
mine, I'm a little bit selfish.
Anybody here selfish at times.
I know I am.
And when I know something's
mine, I don't wanna give it up.
Let me give you a great example.
There's times when we go out to
eat with the kids and the kids get
their kids meals and I get the steak
and here's what my kids ask me.
Dad, can I have a bite?
No, it's my steak.
It's the thing.
Cost $25.
I'm gonna eat it.
And all of a sudden, the Lord convicts me.
It's not your stake.
God gave us like, so it's,
it's sometimes I'm selfish.
You guys probably relate.
But when we realize what we have is ours
in the, and because of God's giving it to
us and then he is called us to steward it.
Then that changes our perspective.
And I want to kind of
answer this question.
What is a steward?
Someone who is responsible for
someone else's stuff, resources or.
So the wealth that the Lord gives
us should humble us, not make
us prideful or arrogant, right?
So we should be giving
God glory, not ourselves.
When we realize the wealth, the time the
talents and treasures are gods given to
us to be used for his glory and our good.
So I started thinking about this,
the breath that I have, the breath
that you have, the abilities that
you have, cuz here's the cool part.
As I get to know more and more of you,
you guys are gifted and passionate.
You've got a heart for Jesus and a heart
for a lot of people that is amazing.
But every bit of that is
from God to be stewarded.
Well, it's not your own, it's
his, that changes our perspective.
So how, how do you begin to now change
this mentality that the wealth in
which you have is actually God's.
How do you attribute that?
How can we even know.
I think it's that point of realizing
that, you know, and I've told this to,
to a lot of people is how we have to
realize is that what we have is, is
not God's cuz I had, what was that?
Where, where was I at?
There was some kid that I said
something, God makes everything the
kid said, no, he doesn't, he doesn't
make, I don't remember what it was.
And I was like, well.
He makes the resources to have that
is in order for us to understand
everything we have is from God,
is we have to start realizing
that God created everything right.
If we go to the basis, if God
created every single thing, that
means he created every ability for
you to have the resources you have.
Most of us say, well, God,
didn't gimme the resources.
I work hard.
Well, who gave you the
ability to work hard?
God.
So you have to kind of come
back to that to realize that.
So there's a couple of ways
that we can look at the idea of.
This, this idea behind
having riches or wealth.
And again, going back to this, he
says, instruct those who are rich
in the present not to be arrogant
or humble is we can be rich in this
life on our own and be selfish.
And we had the option
if to do that, right.
We can be selfish.
We can claim that it's all of our own.
The rich in this life with that mentality
will give us a poor life in eternity.
Well, then we can also be poor in
this life and be rich in eternity.
Right.
Which means we can just be generous
and we can give everything away.
But then there's some people that try
to use that as if I'm poor, then that's
what justifies me, but that's not what
God wants, but I believe there's a
way for us to be rich in this world.
And in the next, if we're rich in
building up God's kingdom, we'll
be rich in seeing God's kingdom.
Luke 2 12 18 says this from
everyone who has been given
much, much will be required.
And from the one who has been entrusted
with much even more will be expected.
Every single one of us in
this room has been given much.
We're all rich in this world, whether
you believe or not, you're rich in this
world financially, but I would also say
spiritually, if you've heard the gospel,
then you've been given a message of hope.
They can never be taken away from
you, whatever little we may have, we
can use it to glorify God and invest
in the eternal riches we can gain.
So how do we do that?
It starts by humbling ourselves
and recognizing that all
we have is from the Lords.
And so going back to this, Paul and
instructs, those who are rich to
humble themselves, not be prideful
and arrogant to live every day.
As though God has given you your breath,
your life, your abilities, your resources,
and your time to you to steward well.
The second thing that he instructs those
for rich is to put their hope in God.
And this is where we see
the second part of, uh, 17.
So he says, instruct those who are rich in
the present age, not to be arrogant or set
their hope on the uncertainty of wealth,
but on God who richly provides all things.
So he says, do not put your hope in the
uncertainty of wealth, but on God who
richly provides for everything, right.
Provides us with all things.
You guys ever try, um, or not try you
guys ever struggle with being generous.
I mean, like where you see somebody that
has a need and you're like, eh, I, I
could use that money on something else.
I mean, again, I, I know I'm stepping
out there to challenge you on this idea,
but like sometimes we just struggle
to really trust God that, that if we
gave it away, would we have enough
leftover to do what we need to do?
I look at this same thing as that's
the idea of trust, the same thing
with our money, but it's also do
you trust giving away your time?
There's sometimes where somebody asks
me, Hey, will you go to lunch with me?
Will you hang out with me?
Where?
And I go, is it worth it?
Because I, I have all these
other things I wanna do.
And then I realize, okay, what's
the return on it is, is God
gonna give this back to me?
And I started thinking,
God stepped the sun.
Didn't he.
To for a battle to be won again.
If you don't know the story,
go back to the old Testament.
He literally stopped the son.
So the battle could be won again.
If the Lord leads you, he's given you the
resource of time, talents, and treasures,
then we should give it knowing that the
Lord, if, if need will have that time to
finish that up, let me ask this question.
Are you struggling to find hope and
God, and to trust him with all the
high gas prices inflation going on?
I mean, you must be blind if you haven't
went to a gas station lately and realized
that your pain doubled the amount
you paid not long ago, and all of a
sudden your budget goes out the window
and you're like, what are you doing?
God, you must have gotten this wrong.
Go back and change it.
Right.
But we trust, we, we struggle to
trust God in these situations.
So why do you guys believe
that we struggle to trust God,
cuz this is what he's saying.
Those who are rich should put their
hope in God we're rich, but we
struggle to put our hope in God in
the areas of, of finance, especially
whenever it comes to things, we feel
like that, that we can't control.
How, how, why do we lose trust?
Why do we struggle to have trust in.
Because we're weak.
I heard you kinda let you gotta speak up.
I'm gonna call you.
That's good.
Yeah.
Okay.
That's good.
What else?
Lack of faith.
We don't understand.
We think we have control.
That's a great one guys.
I'm I'm, I'm telling you, I'm
one of the worst at control.
I love having control of
things and you know what?
God does.
Many times he laughs at.
Now you, you think, do you
actually hear God laughing at you?
Yes, because when I fall flat of
my face, because I can't control
something, God goes, ha told you so.
And it's not because he's
like wanting, he's like really
wanting me to remember that.
I need to put my hope in God, not in
myself or in resources, but we typically
don't put our hope in God or our trust
in God, because we think we have control.
We think we can fix it.
But I realized this, that
our perspectives are limited.
When we wonder what God's doing, our
perspectives are limited when we don't
wanna be generous, our perspectives
are limited, but do you know whose
perspective is not limited to anybody?
God's God knows eternity past forward.
He knows the present.
God cares more about your
tomorrow than you do.
And I'm worried tomorrow
might be gas at five 15.
Maybe it's gonna be $5 and 30 cents.
Maybe it's gonna be six.
I don't know.
But there's days where I
begin to stress about that.
And it's because I'm focusing on what
I can control, which means I only have
a certain amount of money, but God
has unlimited amount of resources.
So it's not like we're going to be
crazy, but we have to realize that
we need to put our trust and hoping
God, whose perspective isn't limited.
So let me give you two examples.
I just wanna challenge you in this again.
Examples of where I stressed out and
didn't put my trust in God and then God
came through and I always say the, these
examples of, of does God always have to
come through and bless you like crazy.
No, he doesn't.
But he, he, he comes through.
So I mentioned, I think at one
point in, in my message about,
in the midst of building a
home, we decide to build a home.
We signed the contract
interest rates are like 2.99.
This is great.
Let's go.
But like, why don't you lock in later?
I'm like, yeah, let's lock in later.
So all of a sudden interest rates
are 5% and I'm freaking out every
day, I'm following interest rates.
I'm talking to Brittany,
I'm calling banks.
What can you do?
You know what?
They're no help.
Stressing was no help.
All it did was cause me to be
distracted all of a sudden,
here's what the Lord said.
Do you trust me here?
It's always interesting what God will
remove or not give you clarity in.
And here's what he's
doing when he does that.
Do you trust me?
And I'm just telling you at times
going, no Lord, I don't trust you there.
And he is like, I know, but will
you and there came that moment
where like, Lord, I trust you.
It's like April.
I'm like, I trust you.
I stopped looking at interest rates.
Like I'm done until the moment that
we needed to lock this rate in,
I'm done call back at 45 days out.
I'm like, all right, what can we.
Somehow they worked it out and got
our interest rates sound, you know,
our payment's literally gonna be what
we've been saving back each month.
I don't know how, like, I don't
know how, but God does that
because my perspective was limited.
I was stressing out.
I was trying to figure out how to get 10
more jobs and to find a way to probably
cuss out the interest rate people
because that would've worked right.
And that would've been ungodly,
but I had to trust God and
realize that's not the way to go.
Cause that was ungodly.
And to trust him, It's just truth.
I go back to even moments like this that I
think are, are, are in, in all reality, go
back to, um, my daughter that was Tegan.
If you don't know her,
Teagan's our youngest daughter.
Um, whenever she was young,
she life flighted emergency
room and her life was bleak.
It looked like she was not gonna live.
And I remember those moments.
We were just crying out to God
saying, God, what are you doing?
Like, God, this is stupid.
But in those moments, you know
what God gave us peace with.
He said, in her life, or in her death,
he's gonna do something through it.
We were able to have a piece
in the midst of that, because
our perspective was limited.
We didn't know why God would do this.
God saved her.
And you know, in the end of end
result, I'm so thankful he did.
But in that middle of that, we
trust that God was doing something
more through that story than
just saving our daughter or not.
And how did we end up
seeing that perspective?
We begin to trust God and God
begin to, to lead people into
our lives that their faith grew.
We got to have spiritual conversations
with doctors that we never would've had.
Our church showed up through prayer
and through giving and all these
things to meet the needs that
we would've never experienced.
Apart from that I'm telling you.
I know those are two examples that says,
God blessed you, God provided for you.
And on the other side of that,
there are other examples where
God hasn't shown up in my life.
And what I mean by that is he didn't
answer the prayer the way I wanted to.
But you know what I realized my
perspective was limited because if
he would've given me that resource,
if he would've given me that job, if
he would've given me that, whatever,
I would've regretted it, he withheld
it because he knew it was better.
I say all that to say this, we are
rich, this is what Paul's saying.
We are rich.
And we sure to put our hope in God,
because we have a limited and narrow
mind of the perspective of our lives.
Our lives are more important to
God because we are his resource.
He is literally left the
gospel message with us to share
and to spread to the world.
Do you think he cares about you?
100%?
He does.
So when you're stressing out.
No, you're not the only one.
Number one, number two, know that your
heavenly father knows what you need
and he will provide what you need.
And sometimes what we need is
different than what we think we need.
That's a tough one to hear.
So Luke 12, 13 through 21 says this,
this is a good, long, long verse.
Luke, Luke, Luke 12, 13 through 21
says this, someone from the crowd
said, te said to him, Tell my brother
to divide the inheritance with me.
And this is Jesus responding.
He says friend, he said to
him who appointed me judge,
or arbitrator over you.
He then told them, watch out and be on
guard against all greed because one's life
is not in the abundance of possessions.
Then he told them a parable.
A rich man's land was very productive
and he thought to himself, what should
I do since I don't have anywhere
to store my crops, I will do this.
He says, I will tear down my barns
and build bigger ones and store
all my grains and goods there.
Then I'll say to myself, you have many
goods stored up for many years, take it
easy, eat, drink, and enjoy yourself.
But God said to him, you
fool this very night.
Your life is demanded of you and
the things you have prepared whos.
Will they be.
That is how it is with the one who
stores up treasures for himself
and is not rich towards God.
So here's this challenge with that verse.
The reason why I'm sharing that is when
we forget that God is the one of the
provider of the riches that we have.
And he is the one that is not called us to
store them up and keep them to ourselves.
We have to remember who member
who the giver of wealth is.
It's not us.
It's not only under our control.
It's under, God's.
So when we begin to store it up,
we don't trust God we'll provide
more to accomplish his work.
This is where I'll come back to.
I've told people this all the
time, you need to give financially.
So you're saying, Hey, the pastor
from the pulpit saying to give a
tithe, I'm challenging you to tithe.
I'm challenging you to give why?
Because I personally have seen that
every single time that I've given
that I've never lacked resources.
Why?
Because I've trusted.
God, God was the one that gave the
100% and I've given back a portion of.
So ever since me and Brittany
back, whenever we were young in
our faith, we started going to
church and we started deciding to
tithe and give 10% of our income.
I've always told people this God has given
us more with 90% than he ever did with the
a hundred percent that we would've kept.
My, my thought with that.
My, my challenge with that
is try the Lord in this.
Be generous.
Again, are we talking about,
you're gonna go get a Porsche
next week because you're generous.
That's not what I'm pushing here.
And I believe that's not what Paul's
saying here either, but when we
think that we have control over the
resources, we have, we, we forget that
we're stewards it's God's and we have
the ability to meet needs and change
lives by the way, in which we give.
And I wanna challenge you even more,
more than finances, your time and your
talents and your treasures are even
more what God gives you every day.
Give what you have.
So Warren WEBY said this, he says,
if God gives us wealth, we should
trust him the giver, not the gifts.
And so I'll say it this way, too many
times, we trust the creation money
rather than the creator, the one who
created money and the ability to possess
money's just paper that we've made value.
God is the one that created everything.
So we need to trust the
creator, not the creation.
So Paul instructs, those who are rich
to be humble, to put their hope on
God, not themselves for their wealth.
And here's the fun part.
He says to enjoy what God gives them.
And so you'll see this, I'm gonna
read this verse all together on 17.
He says, instruct those who are rich
in the present age, not to be arrogant
or to set their hope on uncertainty
of wealth, but on God who richly
provides us with all things to enjoy.
There's times.
I I'll just be honest with you young in
my faith, the moment that I gave my life
to Christ, I thought I couldn't enjoy
the possessions I had because I thought
God only wanted people who were poor,
who had nothing gave everything away.
And that's what we should be happy with.
Now if that's what God leads you to
do, do it, but that's not the truth.
He actually says to enjoy
what God has given you.
It's not bad to enjoy it, but here's
what he's trying to warn against,
but we should not worship in those
things or trust them as though they're
more important than the creator.
Not as that, if it leads us
to sin, we should avoid that.
Right.
We should not enjoy those things.
If it leads us away from the.
and I always tell people
the great example.
If you have a boat, this is not
against you, but you get a boat.
What, what happens then?
Now you gotta have a place to store it.
You gotta keep insurance on it.
Most of the time you don't use it, right.
Then you gotta upkeep every year and
it becomes to, and that's just one of
great example, but we begin to purchase
things and buy things and all this
wealth that takes away so much of our.
We have no time left for God.
We have no resources left for God.
So he is saying like, enjoy what God gives
you, but don't let those things distract
you from what God's called you to in that.
So we can, yes, we can enjoy those things.
And even Ecclesiastes 2 24 says there
is nothing better for a person than
to eat, drink and enjoy his work.
I have seen that even the lure or
even this is from the God's hands.
And I would even say this, this
is why we give thanks during mill.
Is because we can enjoy
the food that we have.
I do like steak, even when
I have to give someone to my
kids, I do like drinking Pepsi.
Okay.
Yes.
Sweet tea too.
But I try to avoid those things.
I enjoy some of those things and he says
to enjoy those, but won't let those.
Distract you from what
God's called you to.
I know I've struggled
with this in the past.
I know many of you may struggle with this
as well, but God has given us these things
to enjoy, but not to worship over him.
So I realized as we've be given these
resources, they're first to serve him.
And then the second is to enjoy and thank
him for what he's allowed you to have.
With that.
So Paul instructs, those who are rich
to humble themselves, put their hope
in God, enjoy what God gives them in.
The last part of this section is to use
what God gives them to build his kingdom.
And this is in verses 18 and 19.
So it says this instruct them to do what
is good to be rich and good works to be
generous and willing to share storing
up treasures for themselves as a good
foundation for the coming age, so that
they may take hold of what is truly.
So we've been given these three
resources that we talked about,
time, talents and treasures.
We need to put these to
work for the glory of God.
So he says to instruct
them to do what is good.
And this is what I love about averse
that really lays itself out really well.
It says instruct them to do what is good.
Well, what is good?
He says to be rich in good works.
How do you define good works?
How would you define good works
anybody?
Serving.
Okay.
Benefits others.
Right.
Okay.
Good.
Anything else?
Glorifies God.
Yeah, those are the two pieces I
would say, right when he talks about
to be rich in good works it's things
that don't benefit necessarily us,
but they benefit others, right.
Things that benefit the God's
kingdom, showing others Christ.
And then he says to be
generous and willing to share.
So, how can we be generous?
We've already talked about that, right?
To be giving not only to the church,
but also to those around us and
meeting the needs of the people around
us that God has placed in our life.
So he says be generous
and willing to share.
And so does anybody know
what it takes to be generous?
Anybody just be generous again, we
we've probably all put a number on it.
If I made X, I would give,
if I had, I would do this.
But it literally just takes generosity
to be generous, no matter what
your income level is, no matter
how much time you have, no matter
whatever talent you have, you can be
generous with what God's given you.
Because again, we have to realize
that we are rich in Christ
and compared to the world.
We're definitely rich.
So then the last one in verse 19, he says
storing up treasures for themselves as
a good foundation for the coming age.
So that they may take hold
of what truly is life.
So if you just start with this
first part, you know, it's,
he's saying it's good works.
It's a store of treasures for yourself.
That doesn't sound right, but
he's talking about where are
we storing those treasures up?
And if you look at it, they're storing
up treasures for themselves as a
good foundation for the coming age
building God's kingdom, investing in
things that will build God's kingdom.
Not yours, not ours.
So it's that challenge.
If what we do is good, will it store
up treasures for the glory of God,
not money or gold, but for souls, for
Christ, those who don't know Jesus, he
says that you may take hold of the life.
That is real.
And I love this statement that it may
take hold of a tr of what is truly life.
Every one of us is breathing air.
And we would probably say we're
living, which is life, right.
But what is truly life is that life
in which we are living for a future
in heaven with God and an eternity.
And so when we think about this,
this life is a purpose filled life
that will not only last this side of
heaven, but will last in eternity.
That's what he's calling us to is to
invest and do good works that will
invest in more than just a life change
here, but in life change in eternity.
So that's that section where
he is covering the last part.
Chapter six and saying, Hey, make sure
we understand that guidelines with
contentment is great gain that, that the
riches of the world is not what should
consume us, but that we realize that
God is the giver of everything that we
have, and that we are to be generous.
That is building God's kingdom.
But his final words here are so
important and verse 20 and 21.
And he uses the word Timothy.
I'm gonna kinda read these verse again.
So we're kind of jumping in this, but
Paul's final word says Timothy guard.
What has been entrusted to you?
Avoiding irreverent and empty speech
and contradictions from what is falsely
called knowledge by professing it, some
people have departed from the faith.
Grace be with you all.
I love how Paul uses
the word Timothy here.
Parents.
You probably have used that name of your
kids whenever you're getting onto 'em.
You know, typically
it's a two name, right?
Chaining James.
Peyton Alexis it's typically cuz
we're trying to get their attention.
That's what we do.
Well, I feel like Paul's in this text
at the end is almost like, all right,
Timothy, you may have checked out
a little bit from this long letter,
but Timothy, listen up, hear me out.
Don't miss this.
So this is my challenge to you.
Listen up.
Don't miss this.
And then the next word's so important.
He says Timothy guard.
What has been entrusted to you?
Guard?
What has been entrusted?
When I think of a guard, I think of
a big dude, couple of bouncer dudes
hanging out, making sure nobody gets
in that shouldn't be getting in.
Right, right, exactly.
Right.
Maybe some guard dogs.
I remember as a kid, my grandma had some
friends that they had these two huge
dogs and they were their guard dogs.
And I never wanted to enter in and go
over their house, but my grandma would
make me go and I was always so scared.
Right.
So in saying guard.
What I have taught you, not only
in this letter, but Paul has
spent a ton of time with Timothy
and he says, guard everything.
I've taught you in journal.
When we think about guarding something,
guys, we have been walking through
this book and we've been given so many
practical things about how we should
conduct ourselves in the church, but
then also how we should reject false.
The things in which we've learned in
this book, if you don't remember them
all, I encourage you to go read them
this week again, and I want you to
begin to guard them, protect them.
And I even think about this Joshua,
um, was challenged by God to meditate
on the law day and night so that
his word would not depart from him.
My challenge to you is to guard something.
We've gotta know what we're guarding, and
if you don't know what you're guarding,
you'll never know if you've guard.
Does that make sense?
I know this kinda level of confusing.
So in order to know what to
guard that Paul's talking about
here, we need to know the truth.
So we need to meditate on God's words.
We need to study it.
We need to know it.
We need to know it for more.
And this is what's so important.
Timothy was not guarding this just to
keep it to himself and give him pep talks.
Give himself pep talks every day,
even though we need that sometimes.
He was guarding it for this, that
will learn in second Timothy.
And second Timothy two to, it says this,
Paul speaking to Timothy, what you have
heard from me in the presence of many
witnesses commit these to faithful men
who will be able to teach others also.
So Paul had given Timothy this challenge
to take this knowledge and guard it
so that he can give it to others.
He needed to protect it so that it
wouldn't get warped or changed into
the false teaching that was being.
We now are part as inspiring hope church,
as followers of Jesus are now stewards
of the message of first Timothy to
take the messages and the truths that
we've heard and that we've learned, and
that we pass them onto someone else.
We need to meditate on 'em.
We need to memorize them
and we need to share them.
We need to live them out
as examples to others.
But if you don't remember, cause I I've
brought this up at the beginning, I
literally preached every message and I'm
asking the question, what all did I learn?
What do I need to apply?
And I could give you a list
and you'd may forget as well.
My challenge to you is take some
time this week, walk back to
the book of first Timothy, write
down what God is speaking to you.
The grab, hold on to guard and to protect
so that you can share with others.
So he says to guard these things, right?
Why does he need to guard these things?
I think about this, Paul's
speaking about the positive first.
Think about something you need to
be focusing on first guard, these
things I've taught you focus on these.
And then he says to avoid irreverent
and empty speech and contradictions
from what is falsely called knowledge.
So he says now to avoid
anything that teaches contrary
to the things in which is.
Guys, if we get that flipped around
and we're just trying to say no, no,
no avoid, avoid, avoid all of a sudden
we, what are we trying to avoid?
We don't remember what we're trying to,
cuz we didn't know what we were guarding
and all of a sudden we're just lost
my challenge to, you know what you're
guarding, put your eyes on Jesus, then
reject or avoid these things that are
contrary to the teachings of God's word.
It's a lot easier in that.
That's why we believe Paul
is teaching it in this.
So he is cautioning Timothy in the
church and us to avoid these type of
teachings because verse 21 tells us, it
says this, it says by professing it, some
people have departed from the faith when
they got caught up in these irreverent
and empty speeches and contradictions
from what was falsely taught, they
begin to walk away from their faith.
They begin to believe in the things that
were not truth challenged for all of
us is that we need to know the truth.
Always go back to the statement.
If we can learn this from the government,
there's one thing we can learn.
People who are trying to get rid of all
the fake money, the counterfeit money,
they don't focus on the counterfeit money.
They focus on what the real money
is, so that they can notice the
counterfeit money when it comes in.
This is not truth.
The only way you're gonna know to reject
false teaching is to know what truth is.
What is truth?
It's in God's word.
It's anything that puts Jesus first,
anything that says it is Jesus by
his grace and mercy, that saves
us that guides and directs us and
challenges us to go about our faith.
And the more and more that I'm reading
as I'm walking through the book of,
uh, I think it was in, uh, second
Peter first, Peter is really talking
about false teachers and it is being
specific about what false teachers
are trying to lead us away from that.
Jesus is not the way that grace is not
the way and that we need to lean into.
Who Jesus truly is.
So what's our take home today.
Obviously part one, we covered part
two pretty quickly, but part one
was just that conclusion of Paul's
instruction on those who are rich, right?
And we are those who are rich instructing
us to humble ourselves, put our hope
in God to enjoy what God gives us, but
to ultimately use what God has given
us to build his kingdom time, talent,
and treasures within Paul's final
words, it's to challenge us, to guard
and protect all that we have learned.
All that we have learned not just on
Sunday mornings when you're in your quiet
time guard and protect that so that you
can teach others so that you can reject
false truth so that you can know how to
conduct yourself as a follower of Christ.
So as we have a time of invitation,
I always love just this time of
reflection, cuz it's so important.
This is what I do every single time that
I get an opportunity to write a message.
I usually finish the message.
I print it off and then I begin to pray.
What is my take home as a pastor?
What is it that God is teaching me?
If we don't take time to reflect.
Many of us will sit through classes just
like we did in college or high school.
And we'll go, yeah, we get that.
That's awesome.
We walk out the door and
we forget everything.
If we were to take a test a week
later, we would forget everything.
The only way you would've been ready
for that test is if you studied.
So to me, this is time for you to reflect,
maybe take a little bit of time and take
a spiritual inventory and write down
some things that God is teaching you.
So I wanna challenge you during
this time of invitation to reflect.
Maybe for you, it's to humble yourself,
to put your hope in God, in the
area of finances, time and talents.
It's easy to get distracted by those
things where we're not humble, what
we're prideful by what we have.
And we begin to take it for granted
and we think we have control over
that, but God's ultimately the one
that does maybe the second thing you
need is that you need to use what God
has given you to build his kingdom.
Maybe you've been avoid.
Giving your time, talents
and treasures to God.
And today's the day where you're
like, Nope, I'm gonna take a step of
faith and I'm gonna begin to trust God
in those areas, trust that God will
do more with what he leaves you to
steward right than what you give away.
And if you give it away, knowing
that God will give it back again,
that time talents and treasures,
maybe part two for you that we talked
about here is that we need to apply.
Some of the principles about
conducting yourself in the church
are how to avoid false teaching,
all the things that you've learned.
So maybe during this time invitation, you
need to reflect on what God has taught
you, and you need to commit to taking
what God has taught you and applying it
and sharing it with others around you.
Memorize it, reread it, act on it.
Think of the person that you're around
each day that needs to hear those truth.
Write their name down and
say, I need to go talk to Joe.
I need to go talk to Tammy, whoever it is.
I need to go tell them the
truth that I've learned.
The last one is for some of us
we've been walking through first
Timothy, but maybe you've been
walking through life without Jesus.
You've been walking
through life without hope.
You've been missing out
on this freedom in Christ.
Maybe you've been avoiding taking the
next step in your faith to give your
life to Jesus, to be baptized, to take
your next step of faith, whatever it is.
If that's you today during this time
of invitation, you can, you can pray
and ask God to give you the boldness
to say yes to take that next step.
You don't have to do it alone.
That's what I love about a church.
You don't have to do this alone.
We can do this together.
Linking arms encouraging one
another to take whatever next step
that God is calling you to take.
But I can't think of a greater
day than today to make that step.
Don't let another day go by
before you take that step.
So I'm gonna pray for us and then
we'll have a time of invitation.
Lord Jesus.
We just thank you Lord for today.
And we thank you for your word.
We thank you for first Timothy.
We thank you, Lord that you gave
Paul the knowledge and the wisdom.
To write this letter to Timothy and that
it would also be written to us even today.
So Lord, I just pray that
our hearts are opened.
Um, Lord, that we have heard truth
during this, uh, serious Lord.
I pray that even today that every person
can walk outta here being challenged
in their faith, including myself,
Lord, help us, help us be humble.
Lord, help us.
Place our trust in you and not in our
resources or the things in which we
have, or Lord let us trust in you.
But ultimately, Lord, I just, I pray
over each person, Lord, I, if they
haven't given their lives to Christ,
they haven't given their lives to you.
Lord, I pray that they do that today.
Lord, that they put their hope and
faith in you and they say yes, and
they begin to take steps of faith.
Lord.
I pray also for the person in this
room, Lord that is struggling to, to
take that next step of faith in their
boldness of, of just living out their
faith, to those around them, Lord,
whatever you're calling them to do.
Lord, I pray that they take it today
and Lord that they realize that
they have a church family to walk
alongside them to take that step.
So Lord, we love you and we praise you and
we pray all of this in your heaven name.
Amen.
Right.